An important message from Mod MMG
Mark Gerhard, Jagex CEO
Hi guys, my name's Mark Gerhard, many of you already know me as Mod MMG, I'm the CEO of Jagex, the makers of RuneScape
and today I'd like to ask you for just a few minutes of your time to talk to you about a very important update
that affects the future of your game.
Since launch more than a decade ago, RuneScape has been struggling with gold farming.
We've made some significant improvements to this in the last couple of years and I'm very proud to say,
in the past couple of months, the game has largely been bot free,
which has significantly impacted their ability to run their illegal businesses effectively.
This year alone, we have removed over 3.7 trillion gp from their bank.
And also banned over 1.1 million gold farming member accounts.
However, despite these significant blows, gold farming continues to survive and undermine the economy and harm the community.
We still see 150 - 170 billion gp injected into the game, each and every day.
The inconvenient truth is, that our research has highlighted that 40 - 50%
of our current active player base on any given month are buying gold from gold farmers.
It's no wonder with demand so high and widespread that despite our very best efforts,
we've been unable to be 100% successful at eradicating this problem.
We've been thinking long and hard about how to permanently resolve this issue and the answer is actually relatively simple.
The solution not only tackles gold farming at its very source, stabilizes the economy
and crucially allows players to benefit most by unlocking the value in their account and be direct beneficiaries of their own hard work.
Today, I'm very proud to announce, the launch of the RuneScape Bonds.
Bonds are the equivalent of a tradable membership item that can be freely gifted or traded for any other tradable in game item.
They can also be redeemed for spins, RuneCoins, RuneFest tickets and in November, even donated to charity.
This system allows existing players to freely trade their in game wealth with any other player that wants it
effectively cutting out gold farmers and destroying their business at the same time.
Therefore on the flip side, any player can now pay for their membership using their in game wealth.
Bonds also include a gold sink which will really help the economy to recover.
This update follows months of careful consideration, analysis and discussion and I know this is a great solution that will benefit all our players.
Alongside our other initiatives and with your help, we're going to wipe out gold farming for good.
If you'd like to find out how bonds will work for you, please take a look at our website.
Guys, this is absolutely the right thing to do for the long term health of this game.
Thank you for taking the time to listen to me today and thank you for your support.
God bless you.